docs/src/lib/nodes.md, before:


# [Nodes implementation](@id lib-node)

In the message passing framework, one of the most important concepts is a factor node.
A factor node represents a local function in a factorised representation of a generative model.

```@docs
@node
ReactiveMP.FactorNode
ReactiveMP.FactorNodeLocalMarginal
ReactiveMP.NodeInterface
ReactiveMP.IndexedNodeInterface
ReactiveMP.messagein
ReactiveMP.messageout
ReactiveMP.tag
ReactiveMP.name
ReactiveMP.interfaces
ReactiveMP.getvariable
ReactiveMP.inputinterfaces
ReactiveMP.alias_interface
ReactiveMP.collect_factorisation
ReactiveMP.collect_pipeline
ReactiveMP.collect_meta
ReactiveMP.default_meta
ReactiveMP.as_node_symbol
```

## [Adding a custom node](@id lib-custom-node)

`ReactiveMP.jl` exports the [`@node`](@ref) macro that allows for quick definition of a factor node with a __fixed__ number of edges. The example application can be the following:

```julia
struct MyNewCustomNode end

@node MyNewCustomNode   Stochastic         [ x, y, (z, aliases = [ d ] ) ]
#     ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^   ^^^^^^^^^^^^^      ^^^^^^^^^^^
#     Node's tag/name   Node's type        A fixed set of edges
#                       Another possible   The very first edge (in this example `x`) is considered
#                       value is           to be the output of the node
#                       `Deterministic`    - Edges can have aliases, e.g. `z` can be both `z` or `d`
```

This expression registers a new node that can be used with the inference engine. 
Note, however, that the `@node` macro does not generate any message passing update rules.
These must be defined using the [`@rule`](@ref) macro. 

## [Node types](@id lib-node-types)

We distinguish different types of factor nodes in order to have better control over Bethe Free Energy computation.
Each factor node has either the [`Deterministic`](@ref) or [`Stochastic`](@ref) functional form type.

```@docs
Deterministic
Stochastic
isdeterministic
isstochastic
sdtype
```

```@setup lib-node-types
using ReactiveMP, BayesBase, Distributions, ExponentialFamily
```

For example the `+` node has the [`Deterministic`](@ref) type:

```@example lib-node-types
println("Is `+` node deterministic: ", isdeterministic(sdtype(+)))
println("Is `+` node stochastic: ", isstochastic(sdtype(+)))
nothing #hide
```

On the other hand, the `Bernoulli` node has the [`Stochastic`](@ref) type:

```@example lib-node-types
println("Is `Bernoulli` node deterministic: ", isdeterministic(sdtype(Bernoulli)))
println("Is `Bernoulli` node stochastic: ", isstochastic(sdtype(Bernoulli)))
nothing #hide
```

To get an actual instance of the type object we use [`sdtype`](@ref) function:

```@example lib-node-types
println("sdtype() of `+` node is ", sdtype(+))
println("sdtype() of `Bernoulli` node is ", sdtype(Bernoulli))
nothing #hide
```

## [Node functional dependencies pipeline](@id lib-node-functional-dependencies-pipeline)

The generic implementation of factor nodes in ReactiveMP supports custom functional dependency pipelines. Briefly, the __functional dependencies pipeline__ defines what
dependencies are need to compute a single message. As an example, consider the belief-propagation message update equation for a factor node $f$ with three edges: $x$, $y$ and $z$:

```math
\mu(x) = \int \mu(y) \mu(z) f(x, y, z) \mathrm{d}y \mathrm{d}z
```

Here we see that in the standard setting for the belief-propagation message out of edge $x$, we need only messages from the edges $y$ and $z$. In contrast, consider the variational message update rule equation with mean-field assumption:

```math
\mu(x) = \exp \int q(y) q(z) \log f(x, y, z) \mathrm{d}y \mathrm{d}z
```

We see that in this setting, we do not need messages $\mu(y)$ and $\mu(z)$, but only the marginals $q(y)$ and $q(z)$. The purpose of a __functional dependencies pipeline__ is to determine functional dependencies (a set of messages or marginals) that are needed to compute a single message. By default, `ReactiveMP.jl` uses so-called `DefaultFunctionalDependencies` that correctly implements belief-propagation and variational message passing schemes (including both mean-field and structured factorisations). The full list of built-in pipelines is presented below:

```@docs
ReactiveMP.DefaultFunctionalDependencies
ReactiveMP.RequireMessageFunctionalDependencies
ReactiveMP.RequireMarginalFunctionalDependencies
ReactiveMP.RequireEverythingFunctionalDependencies
```

## [Node traits](@id lib-node-traits)

Each factor node has to define the [`ReactiveMP.is_predefined_node`](@ref) trait function and to specify a [`ReactiveMP.PredefinedNodeFunctionalForm`](@ref) 
singleton as a return object. By default [`ReactiveMP.is_predefined_node`](@ref) returns [`ReactiveMP.UndefinedNodeFunctionalForm`](@ref). 
Objects that do not specify this property correctly cannot be used in model specification.

!!! note
    `@node` macro does that automatically

```@docs
ReactiveMP.PredefinedNodeFunctionalForm
ReactiveMP.UndefinedNodeFunctionalForm
ReactiveMP.is_predefined_node
```

## [Node pipelines](@id lib-node-pipelines)

```@docs
ReactiveMP.AbstractPipelineStage
ReactiveMP.apply_pipeline_stage
ReactiveMP.EmptyPipelineStage
ReactiveMP.CompositePipelineStage
ReactiveMP.LoggerPipelineStage
ReactiveMP.DiscontinuePipelineStage
ReactiveMP.AsyncPipelineStage
ReactiveMP.ScheduleOnPipelineStage
ReactiveMP.schedule_updates
```

## [List of predefined factor node](@id lib-predefined-nodes)    

To quickly check the list of all predefined factor nodes, call `?ReactiveMP.is_predefined_node` or `Base.doc(ReactiveMP.is_predefined_node)`.

```
?ReactiveMP.is_predefined_node
```

```@eval
using ReactiveMP, Markdown
Markdown.parse(string(Base.doc(Base.Docs.Binding(ReactiveMP, :is_predefined_node))))
```

Commit message:

Enhance functional dependencies customization in ReactiveMP

docs/src/lib/nodes.md, after:

# [Nodes implementation](@id lib-node)

In the message passing framework, one of the most important concepts is a factor node.
A factor node represents a local function in a factorised representation of a generative model.

```@docs
@node
ReactiveMP.FactorNode
ReactiveMP.FactorNodeLocalMarginal
ReactiveMP.NodeInterface
ReactiveMP.IndexedNodeInterface
ReactiveMP.messagein
ReactiveMP.messageout
ReactiveMP.tag
ReactiveMP.name
ReactiveMP.interfaces
ReactiveMP.getvariable
ReactiveMP.inputinterfaces
ReactiveMP.alias_interface
ReactiveMP.collect_factorisation
ReactiveMP.collect_pipeline
ReactiveMP.collect_meta
ReactiveMP.default_meta
ReactiveMP.as_node_symbol
```

## [Adding a custom node](@id lib-custom-node)

`ReactiveMP.jl` exports the [`@node`](@ref) macro that allows for quick definition of a factor node with a __fixed__ number of edges. The example application can be the following:

```julia
struct MyNewCustomNode end

@node MyNewCustomNode   Stochastic         [ x, y, (z, aliases = [ d ] ) ]
#     ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^   ^^^^^^^^^^^^^      ^^^^^^^^^^^
#     Node's tag/name   Node's type        A fixed set of edges
#                       Another possible   The very first edge (in this example `x`) is considered
#                       value is           to be the output of the node
#                       `Deterministic`    - Edges can have aliases, e.g. `z` can be both `z` or `d`
```

This expression registers a new node that can be used with the inference engine. 
Note, however, that the `@node` macro does not generate any message passing update rules.
These must be defined using the [`@rule`](@ref) macro. 

## [Node types](@id lib-node-types)

We distinguish different types of factor nodes in order to have better control over Bethe Free Energy computation.
Each factor node has either the [`Deterministic`](@ref) or [`Stochastic`](@ref) functional form type.

```@docs
Deterministic
Stochastic
isdeterministic
isstochastic
sdtype
```

```@setup lib-node-types
using ReactiveMP, BayesBase, Distributions, ExponentialFamily
```

For example the `+` node has the [`Deterministic`](@ref) type:

```@example lib-node-types
println("Is `+` node deterministic: ", isdeterministic(sdtype(+)))
println("Is `+` node stochastic: ", isstochastic(sdtype(+)))
nothing #hide
```

On the other hand, the `Bernoulli` node has the [`Stochastic`](@ref) type:

```@example lib-node-types
println("Is `Bernoulli` node deterministic: ", isdeterministic(sdtype(Bernoulli)))
println("Is `Bernoulli` node stochastic: ", isstochastic(sdtype(Bernoulli)))
nothing #hide
```

To get an actual instance of the type object we use [`sdtype`](@ref) function:

```@example lib-node-types
println("sdtype() of `+` node is ", sdtype(+))
println("sdtype() of `Bernoulli` node is ", sdtype(Bernoulli))
nothing #hide
```

## [Node functional dependencies pipeline](@id lib-node-functional-dependencies-pipeline)

The generic implementation of factor nodes in ReactiveMP supports custom functional dependency pipelines. Briefly, the __functional dependencies pipeline__ defines what
dependencies are need to compute a single message. As an example, consider the belief-propagation message update equation for a factor node $f$ with three edges: $x$, $y$ and $z$:

```math
\mu(x) = \int \mu(y) \mu(z) f(x, y, z) \mathrm{d}y \mathrm{d}z
```

Here we see that in the standard setting for the belief-propagation message out of edge $x$, we need only messages from the edges $y$ and $z$. In contrast, consider the variational message update rule equation with mean-field assumption:

```math
\mu(x) = \exp \int q(y) q(z) \log f(x, y, z) \mathrm{d}y \mathrm{d}z
```

We see that in this setting, we do not need messages $\mu(y)$ and $\mu(z)$, but only the marginals $q(y)$ and $q(z)$. 

## [List of functional dependencies pipelines](@id lib-node-functional-dependencies-pipelines)

The purpose of a __functional dependencies pipeline__ is to determine functional dependencies (a set of messages or marginals) that are needed to compute a single message. By default, `ReactiveMP.jl` uses so-called `DefaultFunctionalDependencies` that correctly implements belief-propagation and variational message passing schemes (including both mean-field and structured factorisations). The full list of built-in pipelines is presented below:

```@docs
ReactiveMP.DefaultFunctionalDependencies
ReactiveMP.RequireMessageFunctionalDependencies
ReactiveMP.RequireMarginalFunctionalDependencies
ReactiveMP.RequireEverythingFunctionalDependencies
```

## [Customizing Dependencies with Metadata](@id lib-node-metadata-dependencies)

The functional dependencies of a node can be customized at runtime using options during node activation. This allows for runtime customization of the functional dependencies, e.g. to test different message passing schemes or implement specialized behavior for specific instances of a node type:

```julia
# Define custom dependencies based on metadata
function ReactiveMP.collect_functional_dependencies(::Type{MyNode}, options::FactorNodeActivationOptions)
    if some_condition(options) # a user can specify dependencies based, for example, on metadata
        return CustomDependencies()
    end
    # Fall back to default dependencies
    return ReactiveMP.collect_functional_dependencies(MyNode, getdependecies(options))
end

# Use custom dependencies during activation
node = factornode(MyNode, ...)
activate!(node, FactorNodeActivationOptions(:custom_behavior, ...))
```

This feature is particularly useful for testing different message passing schemes or implementing specialized behavior for specific instances of a node type.

## [Node traits](@id lib-node-traits)

Each factor node has to define the [`ReactiveMP.is_predefined_node`](@ref) trait function and to specify a [`ReactiveMP.PredefinedNodeFunctionalForm`](@ref) 
singleton as a return object. By default [`ReactiveMP.is_predefined_node`](@ref) returns [`ReactiveMP.UndefinedNodeFunctionalForm`](@ref). 
Objects that do not specify this property correctly cannot be used in model specification.

!!! note
    `@node` macro does that automatically

```@docs
ReactiveMP.PredefinedNodeFunctionalForm
ReactiveMP.UndefinedNodeFunctionalForm
ReactiveMP.is_predefined_node
```

## [Node pipelines](@id lib-node-pipelines)

```@docs
ReactiveMP.AbstractPipelineStage
ReactiveMP.apply_pipeline_stage
ReactiveMP.EmptyPipelineStage
ReactiveMP.CompositePipelineStage
ReactiveMP.LoggerPipelineStage
ReactiveMP.DiscontinuePipelineStage
ReactiveMP.AsyncPipelineStage
ReactiveMP.ScheduleOnPipelineStage
ReactiveMP.schedule_updates
```

## [List of predefined factor node](@id lib-predefined-nodes)    

To quickly check the list of all predefined factor nodes, call `?ReactiveMP.is_predefined_node` or `Base.doc(ReactiveMP.is_predefined_node)`.

```
?ReactiveMP.is_predefined_node
```

```@eval
using ReactiveMP, Markdown
Markdown.parse(string(Base.doc(Base.Docs.Binding(ReactiveMP, :is_predefined_node))))
```
